I am now studying in Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications and my major is Information Technology. I want to become a Product Manager in the future and I want to learn more about computing systems and business analysis for my goal so I am now apply for NYU’s MSIS program.

In my course I learnt about many topics associated with communication, for example, data structure, IoT systems, machine learning and digital circuits. As I had several hand-on opportunities on different topics, I developed the ability to quickly learn new idea with sample projects and documents. I also obtained some intuition of projects and I enjoy collecting information and making plans. This year I was lucky to get the chance to work as an engineer intern with the helpful people at Nokia labs in Beijing in a PaaS project. I found that communication with co-workers and clients were equally important as the development jobs. This includes writing reader-friendly documents, making phone calls to solve problems for users and test teams, and so on. And above all, it felt good when someone ask me to solve a problem and we worked out how the problem can be solved together.

However, I don’t like my course projects though I know they help me learn. I feel exhausted making up “usages” for my project report, which are just stacks of things that I was supposed to learn. I want to build real things that real people need. So, I know maybe I don’t fit to be a typical developer, who has less connection to the users.

Then I found out that Product Manager is the exact character who make the bigger plan in a project. It is the PM’s job to find true demands out of surveys and other data. The PM also design responds to such demands, and then describe the design in forms that are clear to developers. While senior PMs take care of services and junior PMs look into modules, they both serve to connect the demands and the development. 

PM is a rather new title and there aren’t many people who know how to learn to one, So NYU’s MSIS project really caught my eyes as you list Product Manager as one of the career paths that students may take. I really appreciated the notion that a PM should learn to make good use of the insight from the business side of science, rather than re-invent them by trial and errors, leaving the real projects at risk. To cooperate smoothly the engineers, I also need to learn more about the infrastructure of computing, namely the operation systems, computer networks and so on.

I am really looking forward to be in the New York City, and learn for my goals with the best faculties and the most
